PROGRAMMING LANGUAGES SEMINAR

Referee name   : Andrey Breslav
Referee e-mail : abreslav@gmail.com

--------------------------------------------------------------

REFEREED PAPER
Author  : Sander Sõnajalg
Title   : Program Analysis Techniques for Method Call Devirtualization in Object-Oriented Languages


OVERALL MARK  (1-5)    : 3

The defult marking scale is 1-5 (5 highest positive, 1 "fail").
Some items may have additional explanations when to use which marks.
If there is a comment field, please add a short explananation of your
mark (1-2 sentences).

TITLE (1-5)     : 5
[Is the title clear and succinct describing the subject of the paper?]
COMMENT:

STRUCTURE (1-5)  : 5
[Does the paper have all required components; is the main text
suitably structured?]
COMMENT:

ABSTRACT (1-5)     : 3
[Is the abstract generally understandable; does it fulfill its purpose?]
COMMENT:
Abstract does not clearly describe the content of the paper. Looks more like the first paragraph of an introduction.

INTRODUCTION (1-5) : 5
[Does the introduction give an adequate overview, motivation, problem
description, etc?]
COMMENT:

REFERENCES (1-5): 4
[Is the bibliography accurate and up-to-date; are all references
referred somewhere in the text; etc?]
COMMENT: No actively used bibliography is newer than 9 years old, the most part of the report relies on the work done in the middle nineties.


ACCESSIBILITY (1-5)     : 2
   5 - is accessible only for a specialist in the given specific area
   4 - is accessible for a person having a good general overview in the area
   3 - understandable for any CS/IT master student interested on Prog.Languages
   2 - understandable for any CS/IT student
   1 - understandable for general audience

READABILITY (1-5)     : 3
   5: very good
   4: basically well written
   3: readable
   2: poor, needs considerable work
   1: unacceptably bad


DENSITY (1-5)     : 2
[Is the length of the paper suitable for the content; or is the paper
too light-weight (eg. 20 pages where 2 would be enough); or too tensly
"packed" (too much materila for the given length)]
COMMENT: The paper is very light-weight, most concepts presented are trivial and deserve almost no explanation.

LANGUAGE (1-5): 3
COMMENT: Many articles are left out, some words, expressions and tenses are misused.

--------------------------------------------------------------

REFEREE

COMPETENCE (1-5) : 5 (I have supervised a project on similar topic)
   5 - expert (eg. I have written a paper in similar topic)
   4 - well informed (eg. I had participated in lectures/seminars on a similar topic)
   3 - moderately familiar (eg. I have read a paper in a similar topic)
   2 - informed outsider (eg. I have a basic knowledge in the general area)
   1 - stranger (eg. the topic is completely alien to me)

CONFIDENCE (1-5)  : 5
   5 - I'm completely sure that all given marks are fair and correct
   3 - I'm quite sure that most marks are fair and correct
   1 - I wish and hope that my marks are fairer than tossing a coin

TIME SPENT (in hours): 2

UNDERSTANDING (1-5)   : 5
   5 - all details were clair and understandable
   3 - understood the main idea, but not all details
   1 - couldn't understand almost anything

--------------------------------------------------------------

REFEREE REPORT

Short overview of the paper (one/two paragraphs about the content;
doesn't give an evaluation, but demonstrates your understanding of the
paper).

A general assessment of the paper, pointing out positive and negative
aspects.

The author spends 8 pages for explaining two trivial analyses which are inapplicable for languages with dynamic class loading, but 

Concrete recommendations for improvments (incl. minimal requirements
for the final version).

Other comments.

Seems like the author does not distinguish inheritance from using virtual functions. In fact, many (in some cases -- almost all) functions in a hierarchy may be nonvirtual.

From that follows that the more accurate call graph is the one containing less nodes and edges. --- It's arguable if any nodes can be excluded

As none of the subclasses override hasRightToVote(),
the dynamic method invocation can be replaced with a static procedure call
to Estonian#hasRightToVote()
 --- this is not true since Java allows dynamic class loading. Overall, this analysis is actually irrelevant to Java programs. The cited paper speaks about C++, for which this analysis is sound.

For each call site,
the global set of instantiated types is intersected with the local set of possible
call targets found by CHA, hopefully further reducing the number of candidate
target types. --- this analysis is also unsound for Java, due to the same reason.

Combined with the dynamic class loading capability of the JVM platform, it
now really is impossible to estimate which types are instantiated during the
runtime. --- It was impossible even before, since the author didn't claim that the analyses involve any assumptions or checks of absence of a class-loading code. Feasibility of such assumptions are, in fact, arguable.

There are still ways to work around this though, for example, the JIT
compiler of the virtual machine could memorize all the types of objects which
it has actually instantiated. --- by the current moment. Should it invalidate all the call sites after instantiating a certain class for the first time?

                                               The directed edges of the graph
represent all kinds of assignments, the rules being roughly: -- what happens to expressions, passed as arguments or returned?

Then the type propagation graph is initialized by nd-
ing all object instantiation statements (e.g. new MyClass()) from the code --- again, unsound for Java.


and especially during the runtime --- how can we think of a Java-like platform performing compilation on an end-user's machine, but not at run time?

For a compiled and linked language like C++ --- Java is also a compiled language. The difference is in the target platform: Java is normally compiled into JVM Byte Code, while C++ is normally compiled into executable machine instructions.


For a compiled and linked language like C++, the implementation of techniques
like CHA and RTA would be quite straight-forward, as the whole program is
available for the compiler to analyse during the compilation. Also for C++-
style languages, as native code generation doesn't happen during the runtime
and won't thus aect the end-user, it is much more feasible to apply various
expensive optimizations during compilation. --- this paragraph repeats a previously mentioned point.

The author seems to be assuming no non-private methods accepting parameters in the programs under discussion.


Typos:

C++ of the compiled languages

any of it's subclasses

The runtime type class can override the non-private instance method

sends ) --- full stop missing

examplified


They main goal is to find the set of

proposed by [9] --- in

Node C.m.p denotes the argument or the local variable p of method m of
class C. --- parameter

                         Processing of a node involves copying all the types
from its ReachingTypesset to the ReachingTypessets --- visible spaces needed

If the compilation happens in the end-user's machine --- on

Decleared-type analysis



